Dana Chermesh: Like I let's go to the this app.
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: Don't start don't start to get. So I've started the recording and this is a walking interview with Diana a smidge
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: Taking place in
Where are you, marketing.
Dana Chermesh: Brooklyn.
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: Yeah. And now we don't see anything actually
Dana Chermesh: Oh, you don't. Okay.
Dana Chermesh: That's right. Okay.
Dana Chermesh: So you started again.
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: And now you can start
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: Like okay, this is an interview with Donna and December 16 by 9am in the morning. It's currently minus seven degrees outside, and I thank you for agreeing to this interview.
Okay, so
Dana Chermesh: Ya know, it's like
Dana Chermesh: 25 years 2020 I don't know 20 something. Fine. Hi Dr where we are in New York top right, we were here during covered. So what's a bit of called for us.
Dana Chermesh: Media. We are here in Park Slope.
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: Brooklyn and can you start the application to track your location.
Dana Chermesh: Yeah, I will. So it will I guess you would not see me for a minute.
Dana Chermesh: So, yeah.
Dana Chermesh: Right. Yep. Okay. And I will turn my camera so you can see this
Dana Chermesh: Park Slope Brooklyn where on street.
Dana Chermesh: The corner of Sixth Avenue and that's where I leave
Dana Chermesh: My kids Baker used to be right down the street. Maybe we'll go there. But of course, when college started there was no they care anymore. So we did not enjoy the proximity
Dana Chermesh: To their school
Dana Chermesh: And we were here. Maybe I'll start with me a bit about themselves. So I'm married to a man and we are here is located in Park Slope for the past three and a half years. I'm an architect from a VM and we moved here because I studied urban data science in Mr Lucas and you just caught me
Dana Chermesh: Cross the street.
Dana Chermesh: I am today and entrepreneur in residence futures. I work on my venture and urban tech venture to
Dana Chermesh: Democratize city planning or and urban development processes through engaging communities, our immersive community participation and through augmented reality. Basically the idea is that you could walk down the street, as I do now and see proposals on top of the built environment.
Dana Chermesh: But this aside when we started our baby Rona, she was seven weeks old, when lockdown started back in March 2020. We have also Itamar and i a
Dana Chermesh: boy and a girl twins.
Dana Chermesh: Four years old. Back then, now almost five
Dana Chermesh: So it was a bit hectic and of course we could not really move anywhere.
Dana Chermesh: With a newborn and the kiddos. We have also Bella 70 pounds dog.
Dana Chermesh: So we were here all along, and I was on maternity leave. So I was lucky to not have to juggle work into the lockdown days and I was just with their children and
Dana Chermesh: The same was for my husband for a while, at the beginning of this period.
Dana Chermesh: And I think
Dana Chermesh: This week's were
Dana Chermesh: Very special for sure intense and crazy
Dana Chermesh: Very scary. I think we are. We live on the first floor ground ground floor. So, in the very hard weeks of
Dana Chermesh: March, April, we heard ambulances, like every two, three minutes.
Dana Chermesh: But I can say that from day one. And all along these
Dana Chermesh: Hard month we felt the how strong of the community and we found a solidarity through the streets that we that I now walk you walk you through. So this is 11th STREET AND soon we'll get to seven Avenue, which is kind of the hearts of the of this neighborhood.
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: And you can you explain how did you feel the solidarity or how was it manifested can be in the mobile space if
Someone
Dana Chermesh: Yeah, and I will get to a point that I can show you. So when I will
Dana Chermesh: Cross the street. Now we will get to a coffee shop that was opened.
Dana Chermesh: Maybe mid February or beginning of March, like I'm like two weeks before lockdown. And it was at first it's a block away from our house or just block the block and this is the official
Dana Chermesh: At first we were like, oh my god, I'm so miserable. They just hope and they will lose so much money.
Dana Chermesh: But then they have
Dana Chermesh: They have a window which made them like the best place to buy coffee and they have coffee. I'm not not affiliated with them. By the way, it's not
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: But
Dana Chermesh: Here's this window and back in the very, very hot days you would see people succeed, apart from here until the next block.
Dana Chermesh: So I think you felt that people, although they are
Dana Chermesh: Under they are
Dana Chermesh: Worried, and of course, everyone was
Dana Chermesh: Financially by copying.
Dana Chermesh: People came and bother coffee and to hear
Dana Chermesh: In everywhere along all the street and I think from the very beginning, you saw people with masks and like nodding to each other to strangers industry, understanding that everyone is going through something really hard people asking each other. How are they
Dana Chermesh: And
Dana Chermesh: When the opening started kind of like
Dana Chermesh: June, but maybe I'll go back first. Sorry. So another thing that was very special in these days, it was the beginning of the spring and with children with young children, even in the hard days you try to do at least like a short walk
Dana Chermesh: Across the block to, you know, breathe air and we counted the trees that were
Dana Chermesh: No flourishing in the spring. So every day we we kind of like counted how many got their new flowers already new lives and
Dana Chermesh: The lives are beautiful in that period. So it was something very, very nice. And when you work with young children. Everybody kind of even more nodding to you and happy and try to to be compression and helping
Dana Chermesh: When the opening began
Dana Chermesh: And it was also Warner.
Dana Chermesh: You could see and I added very strongly that walking in the street and doing this daily walks with the needs
Dana Chermesh: Of this walk teaches them so many values about neighborhood and community because every day we decided we will buy our okay or treating. Another place.
Dana Chermesh: I'm taking us to to Prospect Park, by the way.
Dana Chermesh: Which was also a big part of
Dana Chermesh: These days for us.
Dana Chermesh: And so we were buying I explained to them and they understood very quickly that we need to support small businesses. So we bought like a cookie or my friend or my coffee.
Dana Chermesh: Each time in the different coffee shop and again you felt the solidarity between their businesses and their workers and that community.
Dana Chermesh: When Black Lives Matter movement also
Dana Chermesh: Evolved and was the big news and everything.
Dana Chermesh: Our daily walk
Dana Chermesh: Transferred from cutting trees to counting Black Lives Matter and thank yous science on the houses and if you're curious in our part of the neighborhood. My one girl counted at for like lives matter signs and 73 rainbow signs.
Dana Chermesh: So that was another thing to
Dana Chermesh: Know that we, that was very
Dana Chermesh: Very common in our daily walks and
Dana Chermesh: Lasting. I mean, I remember a little together today, the
Dana Chermesh: More open again, I think it was maybe I maybe every parent was here to remember that it's a burden to young children, but this was one of the most magical
Dana Chermesh: Moments to see the kids after month without playground going to getting into the park and not passing
Dana Chermesh: An empty playground, but going into it and start playing
Dana Chermesh: We we walk even earlier. I didn't talk about it, but this
Dana Chermesh: Outdoors dining that now we see one of them. That is not in
Dana Chermesh: Our way back from that.
Dana Chermesh: From the park, we will
Dana Chermesh: We will go. Next thing, but I think that was also one of the
Dana Chermesh: Very exciting things and he like touching
Dana Chermesh: To me, even to see
Dana Chermesh: The restaurants.
Dana Chermesh: expanding their outdoor dining to to meet the six feet.
Dana Chermesh: Requirements and the city that allowed the reducing parking, which has an armed police
Dana Chermesh: All of us know that if you would tell anyone. A year ago that you're going to reduce parking to allow small businesses or restaurants to expand to the street. No one will think, we think that even possible. And then it just happened. And now come to be
Dana Chermesh: And they think, people love it and even now, when it got
Dana Chermesh: You see people and, you know, sitting outside. Maybe not today.
Dana Chermesh: I reasonably call this people are still outside
Dana Chermesh: And people still like try to support businesses, by the way, if you look on the on the businesses themselves, they only did they also did
Dana Chermesh: Very
Dana Chermesh: Beautiful things like
Dana Chermesh: Merging kitchens to allow
Dana Chermesh: Themselves to work more efficient and helping each other with deliveries.
Dana Chermesh: And I mean everywhere around maybe now.
Dana Chermesh: We need to know
Dana Chermesh: There were signs in their windows.
Dana Chermesh: thank us to the
Dana Chermesh: First responders and special workers, the delivery.
Dana Chermesh: And of course, many, many black lives matter.
Dana Chermesh: I think you felt all the time, and also in the part that will get in
Dana Chermesh: Front of people together and walk to the park for us because we have children. And second, because we have Bella dog so
Dana Chermesh: dog runs were not a place to be, but
Dana Chermesh: The unleash hours.
Dana Chermesh: In the early morning in the park where the place that we could take her and release her and meet people outdoors.
Dana Chermesh: Safely and, you know, read some air. So
Dana Chermesh: I think that was that's also very, very strong in my memories of this, this time.
Dana Chermesh: What else they can
Dana Chermesh: I mean, I, I must admit that I finished my going to prepare an album on this.
Dana Chermesh: If you're curious, it was 116 days without
Dana Chermesh: Before the kids got back to summer them.
Dana Chermesh: And right after that I
Dana Chermesh: Worked so it was a very special time for me, I guess.
Dana Chermesh: Many parents mean
Dana Chermesh: I guess my children will not remember that. But as a parent, I'm sure that my parents did not have this very intense time that they were just to have them with us. And I think that's
Dana Chermesh: The craziness. Although their fear and uncertainty.
Dana Chermesh: We felt very strongly that this is something that
Dana Chermesh: Acne us as a family.
Dana Chermesh: And got to know and
Dana Chermesh: I were the children. By the way, the playground.
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: Can you can you say something about the amount of people in the streets like when we walk, walk through the neighborhood, we could see very little people. I assume it's because of the weather in the early hour
Yeah.
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: But can you recall differences likely because it's a residential neighborhood. It would be very different from working in Manhattan, even before Corbett, but was there any changes like
Dana Chermesh: This yeah i think that
Dana Chermesh: That it's just whether that people are less industries and now I will take us back through nine street which is there like big commercial street. I guess the neighborhood.
Dana Chermesh: And you will see on Seventh Avenue. The one we're going through the playground.
Dana Chermesh: Entire event, they're
Very
Dana Chermesh: Again, scary or hard weeks of gang of
Dana Chermesh: People weren't talking about how Manhattan became a ghost town.
Dana Chermesh: This wasn't a ghost town. I mean, you felt that people are going through hard times, of course, people were less in the street, for sure.
Dana Chermesh: But it wasn't empty it wasn't scary. It wasn't full of
Dana Chermesh: No promises or
Dana Chermesh: It was still you saw the community here.
Dana Chermesh: Because it's a neighborhood of families mostly
Dana Chermesh: You is the family. I mean, of course, every family with her. Is it situation and families with children could move to
Dana Chermesh: To I don't know Airbnb in upstate or to their parents if they are around but
Dana Chermesh: But many families stayed here and
Dana Chermesh: Also, in terms of finding help with the kids. So our we could find an any I guess more quickly. When I got back to work and from a larger pool that's a
Dana Chermesh: Much more than, than if we were in the suburbs, I guess, or in rural areas.
Dana Chermesh: But again, with thinking about Manhattan versus Brooklyn. This wasn't a ghost town and as an urban center.
Dana Chermesh: All this mixed use discourse that is
Dana Chermesh: That exists for the past. I know 16 years now.
Dana Chermesh: suddenly got very, very clear, like the message was very clear why you need an excuse neighborhoods and to me, I felt that talking about resiliency of
Dana Chermesh: The resilience resiliency of New York City is not
Dana Chermesh: Or Broadway or Wall Street, because all of these places where it could be abundant.
Dana Chermesh: But it's, it's this name is neighborhood.
Dana Chermesh: family oriented.
Dana Chermesh: Children oriented, if I may say
Dana Chermesh: Now I'm going to
Dana Chermesh: When we get back to Seventh Avenue, which is two blocks away.
Dana Chermesh: This is more like a commercial
Dana Chermesh: Arguments
Dana Chermesh: darting mixed use then they think now with
Dana Chermesh: The thought of also wedding residential
Dana Chermesh: Residential and uses to to places like SOHO or up zoning displaces rather than up zoning.
Dana Chermesh: Know,
Dana Chermesh: low income neighborhoods or places that will only cause speculations of real estate and will not necessarily benefit the residents, but using the high
Dana Chermesh: net value.
Dana Chermesh: Of Manhattan to allow more housing. Well, I think it will stress.
Dana Chermesh: These neighborhoods and will not allow them
Dana Chermesh: And on people think, I mean, I really did I go along the coverage on
Dana Chermesh: All these cars. Oh my god. People are living cities did nine density in danger. I don't think so. I think people especially New Yorkers. I mean, we're here because we we want the
Dana Chermesh: The meeting or the interactions with other people. We want the diversity.
Dana Chermesh: Is not is not one of our patients moving to
Dana Chermesh: Brooklyn coming complex like one basically everyone around you aren't the same as young
Dana Chermesh: Used to give our children through their day to day lives.
Dana Chermesh: More diversity and more exposure to people that are different than them and Park Slope is
Dana Chermesh: Not the most diverse neighborhood, let's say, but at least in daycares and now they're in Pre K. So in public school
Dana Chermesh: They do get to see much more diversity or not see to to live with.
Dana Chermesh: such diverse
Dana Chermesh: Community and we could give them back home.
Dana Chermesh: I think this is something to
Dana Chermesh: Remember,
And
Dana Chermesh: Donations
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: You had some great observations about the differences between a Manhattan to your residential area and I had two related
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: Questions.
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: One of them.
Is about
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: Noting to people in the street, as you mentioned before. Do you know the people that lives around you or like do you pass familiar faces every day.
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: And the second thing was about the rates of infection if you know anything about the rates of infection immune
Dana Chermesh: Function or
Dana Chermesh: Neighbor.
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: Overall,
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: Or anything that you can tell us about
Dana Chermesh: Yeah. So let's start with the second question, I think.
Dana Chermesh: One of the better.
Dana Chermesh: Places to be in terms of zip codes and writing sections on. So now I mean now everyone is increasing, but
Dana Chermesh: But by the way, our kids.
Dana Chermesh: Their public school is in
Dana Chermesh: Southeastern to Prospect Park neighborhood in Windsor terrace.
Dana Chermesh: orange and yellow.
Dana Chermesh: And we are first question. So we moved an apartment within the neighborhood, but two avenues. So that's a big change, I guess.
Dana Chermesh: In the neighborhood scale right before the lockdown. So again, as I said, we had a new baby so we meant that anyway to move to a bigger place so we didn't know that.
Dana Chermesh: The neighbors or around, but because the kids Baker was so close. So their friends were kind of from from around, but the people that we know that we do not know them.
Dana Chermesh: Oh no thinkers again i like i see their homes teacher
Dana Chermesh: And as high as basically course we know that the people from the
Dana Chermesh: Coffee shop or they're the best that is right next to the coffee shop.
Dana Chermesh: But look, that's basically we don't
Dana Chermesh: Our friends. Most of them are not from this neighborhood.
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: So you told us about your a routine during the epidemic with the daily walks with the kids in the neighborhood. Can you maybe compare that to your daily routine before the epidemic.
Dana Chermesh: Well,
Dana Chermesh: Because I also having babies, I guess, like in pre maternity leave.
Dana Chermesh: I worked before. Different me or before I gave birth Rona in my book.
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: So,
Dana Chermesh: My daily routine was to put the kids.
Dana Chermesh: In daycare and taking bike.
Dana Chermesh: 15 minutes back to read a book, which is another amazing neighborhood and maybe I need to do another work there, but I wasn't doing coffee.
Dana Chermesh: So that was my venues in working
Dana Chermesh: In an urban design houses and a
Dana Chermesh: Viking back to
Dana Chermesh: But
Dana Chermesh: I think, well, and the big change of courses.
Dana Chermesh: And now they do.
Dana Chermesh: Maybe talk about that later phase, which means
Dana Chermesh: And here we just did to know that we are back in seven, seven years. So that's like more commercial and I will help us here.
Dana Chermesh: Are people in
Dana Chermesh: Coffee shops.
Dana Chermesh: So yeah, maybe let's talk about this the beginning of the school year, because that
Dana Chermesh: I was a bit mad about the city at this point because okay march came and no one knew what it is and we had to close everything, of course. But then when September came
Dana Chermesh: I think the city could
Dana Chermesh: could prepare better for having kids at schools because, are you
Dana Chermesh: Not do well with zoom
Dana Chermesh: And it is a burden on Oracle parents and are not something
Dana Chermesh: I think. And of course, you might remember that are not super sprinters. And on top of all we had always still have
Dana Chermesh: under utilized space.
Dana Chermesh: Of
Dana Chermesh: Not
Dana Chermesh: Only open
Dana Chermesh: Schools, because we don't have place or space to do
Dana Chermesh: The reasonable social distancing that I find very supportive of doing that. And I'm supportive of everything that
Dana Chermesh: He's doing and how they're dealing with that.
Dana Chermesh: But the city could
Dana Chermesh: We were
Dana Chermesh: And I can you adjust your earphones.
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: Because you're losing your voice.
Dana Chermesh: I hear me now.
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: Yeah, but it's kind of moving in and out. So try to keep them steady
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: Sorry for interrupting you.
Dana Chermesh: And so I had this idea that if we could, in the past where
Dana Chermesh: Classes expand into
Dana Chermesh: Indoor spaces that we're not utilizing recently.
Dana Chermesh: And we could maybe train
Dana Chermesh: Some of them. Many, many unemployed.
Dana Chermesh: To
Dana Chermesh: Be teachers, but
Dana Chermesh: But they can
Dana Chermesh: Or they can help with logistics, we could find some space and we have here the why close to here. We are now in on seven and seven. So the wise on nine three and six like right here. I was closed until recently, and knowing we have them Methodist Hospital.
Dana Chermesh: Again, very close. And maybe that's why we heard all the sample insurance coverage.
Dana Chermesh: And anyway, I think the sneaky could prepare better for this.
Dana Chermesh: School year and now with the
Dana Chermesh: Recent closing of schools and of course everybody understood pretty quickly that it was
Dana Chermesh: A bit rush to to close close again.
Dana Chermesh: This for the lower
Dana Chermesh: grades of the younger children.
Dana Chermesh: So yeah, I think it could it could have businesses with rent if we could
Dana Chermesh: Use their spaces to get children or four different pods. So we for talking again on my personal experience. So as you see, I'm jumping here between Albany Stadium, to me, a mother to three young children.
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: Exactly why we wanted to talk to you.
Dana Chermesh: Thank you.
Dana Chermesh: Yeah, the overall, I didn't know holistic perspective. I guess I mean each has or each role.
Dana Chermesh: Improving me as like being a mother makes me a better urban planner urbanist and having the word been Lance's helps with with motherhood.
Dana Chermesh: But
Dana Chermesh: Yeah. So going back to my personal or our personal experience. The kids are in two different
Dana Chermesh: Childcare say they are in public school public school is on the two days a week, and every other
Week.
Dana Chermesh: The help for that would enrichment program.
Dana Chermesh: They go thousand eight days so
Dana Chermesh: I must raise children in this times because they are so resilient and so strong.
Dana Chermesh: Overall, they're like just happy, no matter what, knock on wood and
Dana Chermesh: If for us parents when it started, we were like, oh my god, two different
Dana Chermesh: groups of kids and two different
Dana Chermesh: Two different sets of features and that's like so confusing and how they deal with that. And they're like, oh my god, amazing two groups of friends and do sense of details. That's fine.
Dana Chermesh: So praise really I'm uploading and to all children.
Dana Chermesh: During covered
Dana Chermesh: I think we can learn from them.
Dana Chermesh: So much about
Dana Chermesh: optimism and
Dana Chermesh: Resiliency
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: And also when you know when you mentioned their ages. It was amazing to think that
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: If there were five for another five. It's like a fifth of their lives. Actually, they spent during the pandemic.
Dana Chermesh: Yeah, totally.
Dana Chermesh: And you know, when you, when we watch
Dana Chermesh: Movies with them.
Dana Chermesh: And they seen the movie like the crowd together or people hugging like oh it was before the coronavirus I mean they notice everything
Dana Chermesh: Here is by the way.
Dana Chermesh: An example of this outdoors dining, you probably got from all your interviews in different places in the city. But I'm always happy. I mean, it makes me happy to see this.
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: And actually it's great that you took us from the residential neighborhood to the more commercial Street and as you're walking in the street, we could see a lot of differences between where you started, that the tour to the street.
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: So,
Dana Chermesh: Okay, maybe I needed to to start here and then walk to the park.
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: No, no. It's excellent that we're there after seeing the residential area. And maybe you can also talk about a little bit about that. Like the different differences in district before and after the pandemic, besides the outdoor dining that we just saw.
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: On the census.
Dana Chermesh: Yeah, so I think we have this which is Seventh Avenue and Fifth Avenue, which is
Dana Chermesh: Maybe a bit more
Dana Chermesh: Rough but
Dana Chermesh: Properly.
Dana Chermesh: And nice place to walk and also there was another leg on there. But I think what was most
Dana Chermesh: Apparent during the weeks was again the solidarity between the businesses.
Dana Chermesh: And between the their community and their businesses. So it would like to think to
Dana Chermesh: To buy your coffee every time from another place. So to do your grocery
Dana Chermesh: In different places or even
Dana Chermesh: Do not
Dana Chermesh: Take college or something and
Dana Chermesh: I'm sure as it was for us.
Dana Chermesh: Like I was on the printer name.
Dana Chermesh: Your baby and
Dana Chermesh: We were threat.
Dana Chermesh: I'm sure most of the people were
Dana Chermesh: But still we felt like this obligation to, you know, have the economy somehow
Dana Chermesh: And we did what we could, and I am sure I mean I know that we weren't on the one until we have more
Dana Chermesh: Nice.
Dana Chermesh: So I think that
Dana Chermesh: Went down. It was dining started, I really felt that it was you know vacation in their
Dana Chermesh: micro level, but much more exciting than, you know, bigger innovation, things like you really sell how every business here is figuring out how to best llandysul designing how to
Dana Chermesh: How to keep everyone safe.
Dana Chermesh: At the beginning, there were, I don't know. Cars hits this
Dana Chermesh: The corner of these. So I think that was a bit of an issue.
Dana Chermesh: But yeah, I felt again between the businesses or with the kitchens and and all and between the people at the businesses and you really felt it like walking in the streets.
Dana Chermesh: And oh, yeah, that's my observation.
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: And that's, that's a nice observation to finish the interview way because we also want to be respectful of your time.
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: First, so I'm gonna stop the video and you're going to stop the tracking and
Sharon Yavo Ayalon: continue this conversation in Hebrew.